Here's a big list of terms that I tend to throw out without explaining:

### People
- Pawn: Another word for "Character".
- Psycaster: A pawn who possesses a Psylink, and is capable of using Psycasts
- Faction: A group of people. On the Rim, factions very rarely ever branch out from their home planet.
- The Empire: A civilization with extremely advanced technology. In terms of social structure, they emulate medieval Britain, in a way. Just about every single one of the nobles is bat-$#!7 crazy.
- Outlander: Someone who isn't native to planet they now inhabit. Often used on the Rim to describe entire factions which were started by people who (crash)landed on the Rim within the past couple generations. They retain most of the technology that got them there, but not everyone knows how to build a spaceship.
- Archotech Engine: Not a whole lot is known about the Archotech engines. They seem to provide the juice behind Psycasts, and have created many wonderous artifacts, but trying to communicate with one is an uphil battle at best, and usually a death wish. Archotechs are _extremely_ advanced machine personas, built in part by themselves. They tend to take over entire planets, converting them into what is essentially a gigantic server room.  Think skynet but not always evil.
### Tech Levels
- Tribal: One of the five tech levels. Often used on the Rim to describe factions that have lost the majority of the technology that got them there. These folks have been around a long time, and don't seem to be going anywhere off-world in a hurry.
- Medieval: The second of five tech levels. Not as advanced as an Industrial civilization, not as destitute as a Tribal one. Not to be conflated with the Empire, who are a Spacer faction, Medieval factions use antiquated technology for our standards in the 2020s, let alone the standards in 5500. Trebuchets, castles, moats, swords, maces, that whole aesthetic.
- Industrial: Step three of five along technological progress is Industrial. Still haven't made it to space, but are tantalizingly close. Outlanders are most commonly in this category.
- Spacer: Tech level four of five. Spacer factions have invented the means for interstellar travel, and are fairly rare on the Rim. Usually, once you get to space, your first instinct is to book it for the more civilized Coreworlds.
- Archotech: Extremely advanced technology that is hardly understood by humans, aside from its function. People don't make archotech technology, the Archotech Engines do. Things like Vanometric Powercells and Psylinks are fairly common (as far as archotech artifacts go) technologies that can (usually) be attributed to the archotechs.
### Places
- The Rim: The outer-reaches of the galaxy. If you're exceptionally lucky when landing, someone is in charge. Usually, though, the Rim is a lawless and unforgiving place.
- The Coreworlds: Much more civilized than the Rim, the Coreworlds are where the vast majority of humanity lives.  
- Glitterworld: A utopic world where your every wish is granted to you on a silver platter. People on glitterworlds don't age, are never sick or injured, and if someone does manage to become ill or hurt themselves - there's no better medical treatment than that provided using glitterworld medicine.
- Caveworld: A world that, for one reason or another, has a surface that is completely inhospitable to humans. Of course, humans often don't care if something will kill them, and as such those choosing to live on a Caveworld do so underground in vast tunnel networks.
- Urbworld: Think Noire, but the whole planet is a multi-level city instead of it just being Chicago.
- Archotech Engine: An entire planet taken over by an Archotech, in order to gain even more computing power. Often used interchangeably with the Archotech inhabiting it, though that's not entirely accurate. Attempting to land on such a world is asking for a slow and painful death.

### Technological Progress of the last ~3,500 years
- Mechanioids: Killer robots bent on destroying humanity. Or your Roomba. It depends on the context.
- Gauranlen Tree: An odd perpetually orange-leaved tree with a symbiotic relationship with a dryad queen. Given proper case and a psychic bond, a person can coax the queen into producing dryads of various castes, all with their own utility.
- Anima Tree: An odd tree with ethereal blue leaves.
  - According to the Tribals, who share an undeniable bond with them, Anima trees grow on the intersections of leylines, and are supposedly the extremities of the planet's Anima spirit. According to them, one can communicate with the spirit through intensive meditation at the tree, resulting in the gift of wonderous powers. Of course, the only sources that can confirm such a tale are the Tribal factions themselves. Though, however dubious it may sound, their ready access to psycasting would be easily explained if it were true.
- Psylink Neuroformers: A recent creation of the Empire's, a Psylink Neuroformer instantly forms a Psylink within the brain of the target, allowing them to use and learn Psycasts.
- Genetically Modified Animals: While aliens have as yet alluded humanity, that didn't stop them from making some themselves. The Muffalo, Boomalope, and Thrumbo are all prime examples of human geneticists getting up to some tomfoolery.
- Genetically Modified Humans: Yes, even humanity itself has been modified - or at least, some of it. Several geno- and xeno-types are fairly common across the Rim and the galaxy as a whole, including the Impid, Hussar, Genie, and Highmate.
- Johnson-Tanaka Drive: Ever wanted to move faster than the speed of light? Well too bad, that's impossible. You sure can get close though! With the J-T Drive, you can reach top speeds of 99.999% the speed of light! That said, it doesn't really solve the whole "500 light-years of distance" thing, if you're not going _faster_ than light. As such-
- Cryptotech: A field of research dedicated to the study of completely pausing biological processes, and the art of resuming them without causing complications. Cryptosleep Caskets are a fairly uncommon sight on the Rim, but everyone who landed there themselves is intimately familiar with at least one cryptosleep casket.
- Biosculpting: No longer are the days of dysphoria and aging! Gender reconfiguration, age-reversal and even full limb regeneration are all services that so-called "Biosculpting Parlors" offer on the glitterworlds. Of course, you'd be hard-pressed to find anyone but the Empire with access to a Biosculpter - or even the plans to build one - on the Rim.
### Mechanics
- Psycasting: The act of expending Psyfocus to manifest a Psycast. These vary in effect, though tend to be combative in nature.
- Meditation: The act of intently focusing on an object to regain one's Psyfocus. Depending on the pawn's traits and background, the most effective "focus object" will vary. Psychopaths may focus best on a loved one's coffin, while a Pyromaniac may prefer to watch the flicker of a lit brazier. Ascetics can simply stare at a blank wall, and are plenty happy doing so.
- Psyfocus: A fairly nebulous term - basically, think spell slots. The higher your psylink level, the more psyfocus you can maintain.
- Psychic Heat: Many psycasters liken low levels of psychic heat to the burnout after working on a creative activity for too long. They also are quick to mention the hangover-like symptoms that often accompany when Heat reaches more moderate levels, and the coma and brain damage that can be inflicted upon oneself through extremely poor Heat management -- or upon one's enemies through use of certain psycasts.
- Bionics: Marvels of medical technology, bionics are improvements upon the base human form. Simpler prosthetics still exist, and are still _decent_ at simulating a working body-part, but you still can't see out of a golden eyeball, no matter how cool it looks. As such, while prosthetic limbs are an option, sensory organs are only replaceable with bionics. Additionally, various implants are also obtainable, which provide small boosts to a few stats in particular. For example, a Neurocalculator vastly improves the rate at which the user works with numbers, increasing their overall Intelligence. A Tactical HUD (when paired with at least one Bionic Eye) improves the user's aim when firing a weapon, increasing the odds they'll hit their target.